[Music]
today I'm gonna show you how to make one
of my favorite tacos tacos de lengua
which actually translates to beef tongue
so I have all my mise and plos here I'm
gonna sautee them first because they
take a few minutes I have onions garlic
a little bit of oil
step over here get that going and we're
gonna sweat them to bring out the flavor
I love that sound so good I'm low here
alright and then I have some jalapenos
with the seeds and veins removed take a
little bit of the heat away alright so
I'm gonna add that if you use jalapenos
wear gloves guys because the oil will
irritate your skin and if you touch your
eyes you're gonna hate yourself alright
and then I have a little mince up front
there which will also add a nice flavor
to the braising liquid all right so that
sweating smells delicious alright I have
some stock here some aromatics which I'm
gonna add next and so I just want to
talk about this really quickly well this
is sweating so beef tongue is a muscle
and it is very firm and it requires a
long time to cook so give yourself at
least two and a half hours the front is
very lean the back is more fatty and the
fat is what makes this thing amazing so
if you ask me this is my favorite piece
but we're gonna chop it up and mix it
together so it's a little more even in
uniform so I think we're perfect here
nice color I'm just going to add the
aromatic add the mint stir it up a
little bit and some water here
you want to submerge it you can also
roast the tongue it's entirely up to you
I'm just a fan of braising because you
can let the meat stay in the liquid and
it'll make it a little easier to
preserve it'll allow it to you know keep
a little more flavor I'm putting in
vinegar now adds a nice acidity to it
lastly I'm gonna put some stock I'm a
huge fan of stock it just adds a nice
base flavor if you want to be neutral
you can use vegetable stock which is
what I do a lot you can use chicken if
you want if you're gonna use beef I
would use it just to cook beef so we
have vegetables here with this you don't
really need to do anything to it to prep
when it's done cooking you're gonna be
able to peel this really coarse these
are like the taste buds be able to peel
that right off that's how you'll know
it's done so now I'm gonna take the
tongue I'm gonna put it in the braising
pot here and I would say you don't
necessarily need to submerge the whole
thing here because you're gonna put a
top on it and it's gonna keep the heat
going all around but that liquids gonna
reduce over time and you're gonna have
an amazing little broth slash sauce that
you can ladle over it in about 2 and 1/2
hours later we're just gonna take a
little knife and see if we can easily
cut a piece off see if it's ready all
right so we've been patiently waiting
for the language abraeve we're at about
3 hours now you should really just feel
inside you want the meat to just pull
off so tender so what we're gonna do now
take this beautiful beef tongue put it
down watch out it's really hot I can use
your knife to help you see how just
peels right off it's so beautiful that's
how you know it's done too so we're just
gonna I'm gonna hold off doing it all
but I'm instead gonna cut my favorite
part of the tongue which is the bottom
part right down underneath because it
has higher fat content and it is so
delicious okay we are it's right here
you can see the beautiful layers of fat
in the middle that is what's gonna make
your taco absolutely amazing chop it up
I'm gonna save a little bit of the broth
here to soak the meat in because once
you cut this up you're gonna be exposing
a lot of the meat to the flavor here
whereas before it was right in the
center of the tongue now you have an
opportunity
really just absorb all that foot so my
guess is so good all right so tortilla
pan heating right behind me yes right
here awesome
we're gonna go simple here we want to
highlight the flavor of the beef we have
tomato salsa fresh avocados lime
everything is very mild it's gonna show
off how awesome our beef is so I'm just
gonna check this won't add a little
color and then we're ready to build this
baby then guys once you taste this you
won't even think twice that it's done go
tongs see how moist that is this is why
I like to braise instead of roast see
you still have some of the jalapenos and
onions in here beautiful all right
[Music]
and if you want to spice it up a little
bit we have some hot sauce
all right
Wow it's so good right there that is a
taco de lengua
[Music]